[MUSIC PLAYING]
- Sort of an all
encompassing thing.
Even our conversation
right now has potential
of being sound healing.
And the Lord said,
let there be light.
- And there was light.
- Right.
Sound creating light.
Sound shaped into dazzling tool
can make, break, or rearrange
molecular structure
and levitate objects.
- Wow.
- George, I think if there's a
take away from this whole thing
it's first and foremost.
GEORGE NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief" we've
got an exciting
program for you today,
Jonathan Goldman with us.
He's an international
authority and pioneer
in the field of sound healing.
He's also the author of numerous
bestselling books on sound
and happens to be a
Grammy-nominated musician.
Welcome to the program, Jonathan
JONATHAN GOLDMAN: George, it is
a true blessing and a pleasure
to be here.
Thank you for having me.
GEORGE: Tell me the song that
you were Grammy nominated for.
GOLDMAN: It was actually
a album that I produced
called "Tibetman
Master Chants" that
was done with one of the
Dalai Lama's favorite chanting
monks Lama Tashi.
And he has been in my life
for about 30-plus years.
And I recorded him, created
this whole, if you like--
GEORGE: Oh, that's exciting.
GOLDMAN: --combination.
GEORGE: What a great honor.
That's great.
I'm interviewing a
Grammy-nominated musician.
This is great.
GOLDMAN: Yes, well, George,
I am talking to George Noory,
even better.
GEORGE: A little bit
later on in the program,
Jonathan's going to demonstrate
some of these sound healing
techniques.
And wait till you hear some
of the sound that's amazing.
But what is sound healing in
the first place, Jonathan?
GOLDMAN: Well, on a level,
it deals with, first,
the idea of what
is sound because we
have to understand that
we understand that sound
is a vibrational frequency.
It travels as a wave.
It goes into either our
ear or into our body.
And when it goes
into our ear, it
affects our brain, our nervous
system, our heart rate,
respiration.
And when it goes into our body,
it basically affects us down
to a cellular level.
So sound healing is using
either music, or our own voice,
or all sorts of different--
other types of instruments
to shift and change
our nervous system, our
heart rate, our respiration,
our cellular structure,
or our etheric field
and do much, much more.
So it's sort of an
all-encompassing thing.
Even our voices, our
conversation right
now has potential of
being sound healing.
GEORGE: How did the ancients
understand this much better
than most people do today?
GOLDMAN: Well, it's so
interesting, George,
because our ancients and our
modern quantum physicists
are in agreement that everything
is in a state of vibration.
With them, they began with,
in the beginning was the word,
and the Lord said,
let there be light.
The actual activity--
GEORGE: And there was light.
GOLDMAN: Right,
sound creating light.
And that's actually called
acoustic luminescence,
if you like sound, creating.
There's a term for that.
But the aspect is that all
these different traditions--
in ancient Egypt, the God
Thoth would think of an object
and bring it into being
and speak its name.
In Polynesia, the gods would
hit a gong and through that
manifest life or blow a conch.
In ancient Egypt, there
was Thoth doing that.
In ancient India, they
say not a Brahman.
The world is sound.
In the beginning was Brahman
with whom was the word,
and the word was Brahman.
GEORGE: When you talk
about ancient Egypt,
there is some talk
that they used
sound to move the blocks
that built the pyramids
and floated them into place.
Is that possible?
GOLDMAN: George, here's a
quote from the "New York Times"
science section
February 8, 1988--
I just remembered the date--
first, sound shaped
into dazzling tool
can make, break, or
rearrange molecular structure
and levitate objects.
GEORGE: Wow.
GOLDMAN: And they were
talking about ultrasound
basically being able to
levitate small, little things
like ping pong balls but
really with a proper knowledge
and the proper understanding
of how frequency can empower
and encode certain things.
Anything is possible.
GEORGE: Is there a certain
frequency, Jonathan,
that heals more than
another frequency?
GOLDMAN: It's a great
question, George.
And I think on a level,
it depends upon the person
because we are all
unique vibratory beings.
And what works for one
person might not necessarily
work for another person.
As an example,
oftentimes in workshops,
when we talk to people
and say, how many of you
are allergic to penicillin?
Because the concept of sound
healing comes from the idea
that everything is in a state of
vibration or quantum physicists
and the ancient mystics.
So therefore, penicillin
is a frequency
or a set of frequencies.
And probably about
80% of any audience
is going to find it
therapeutic and healing.
But anywhere from 5%
to 20% of an audience
is going to find
penicillin toxic.
GEORGE: Yes.
GOLDMAN: So it's not going to
be a healing frequency for them.
So on a level, I have never
found an overall frequency
that works for everybody simply
because of the uniqueness.
GEORGE: How do you
find the frequency
to work for somebody then?
GOLDMAN: That is
still, if you like,
one of those
questions that people
are researching and working on.
There is, if you like--
part of that whole thing is
if you like a formula that I
came up with back in the 1980s.
And this was when
I was basically
getting my master's degree
from Lesley University,
and I had a pile of
papers about ye high.
It's back when people
still had papers.
I collected papers.
And I was trying to
basically correlate
the different scientists
and spiritual masters who
were using different frequencies
for either resonating
the physical organs
or the chakras,
the theatric
centers of the body.
And I thought, oh, my
goodness gracious, I'm
going to be the first person
who puts all this information
together and just make
everything coherent
and make sense.
But instead, I would
find scientists
A who would use a particular
set of frequencies
to heal a particular
imbalance or scientists
B who would be
using a completely
different set of frequencies
for the same imbalance
and the same thing with
spiritual masters who would be
using a particular
mantra for a chakra,
and a different one would
be using a different mantra
for the same chakra.
And I was in a state
of intellectual angst.
GEORGE: Absolutely.
GOLDMAN: And I sat
there with my head
in my hands in front
of this computer
where I was trying to
write out this book.
And all of a sudden, this
inner voice-- because I said,
how can this be?
How can this be?
This doesn't make sense.
I come from a family of doctors.
It should make sense.
So you should be able to
give X, Y, or Z to somebody
and it all work.
And an inner voice said, it
is not only the frequency
of the sound that creates
its effect but also
the intention of the person
making and receiving the sound.
And I wrote out on this
screen, frequency plus intent
equals healing.
And I think back in the '80s,
that was really questionable.
But nowadays, with the work
of people like Bruce Lipton--
GEORGE: Great people.
GOLDMAN: --Joe Dispenza
and even Wayne Dyer
does a whole show on public
television on intention,
people are beginning to
accept the power of intention.
You couple that together, that
sound can encode and carry
the vibrations, the
consciousness of somebody else
and through that
create its effect.
GEORGE: Too bad we couldn't
have a specific frequency
for a specific
illness or disease
and say, if you
have a kidney issue,
this frequency
takes care of that.
If your liver's screwed up, this
frequency takes care of that.
GOLDMAN: Well, there are
people who have done this.
One of my great mentors
was a British doctor,
an osteopath named Peter Guy
Manners, who basically invented
something called the cinematic
instrument that had-- he
used combination frequencies.
He called them commutations.
So for every
particular imbalance,
he would use a
combination frequency
of five different
composite frequencies.
And there are over 600 different
combination frequencies
for different organs,
different systems, et cetera.
And this machine still
exists in some forms today.
GEORGE: It does.
As a matter of fact, Jonathan,
on Gaia News, John Stuart Reid.
Shares his cymatic invention
about cancer imaging cells.
Watch this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
SPEAKER: The study of cymatics
or the spontaneous geometric
patterns produced by
sound when it encounters
water or particulate
matter on a surface
was coined by Swiss
researcher Hans Jenny in 1967.
Jenny documented
the patterns that
appeared when putting sand or
fluid on a metal plate that
was connected to a sonic
frequency oscillator.
Today, acoustic physics
scientist, John Stuart Reid,
has partnered with Dr. Sungchul
Ji at Rutgers University
to apply synthetic imaging to
identify cancer cells compared
to healthy cells.
The two hope to
develop this technology
to allow surgeons the ability
to more precisely target
cancerous cells when
removing tumors.
So what do cancer cells look
like compared to healthy cells?
JOHN STUART REID:
What we found was
that the sounds of cancer cells
are generally fairly skewed.
And, well, I would call
them subjectively ugly.
Whereas the sounds
from healthy cells,
generally, the
sounds are harmonic,
and therefore, the
patterns that are created,
these symmetric, patterns are
very symmetrical by comparison.
And as the cell
has a respiration,
it's literally making
sound all of the time.
So all of our cells are
singing all of the time.
And actually, it's
really interesting
to know that they're singing
in the audible spectrum.
So in other words, if we
could hear those sounds,
well, it would actually
drive us nuts, wouldn't it?
So it's probably just as
well that we can't hear them.
However, they are literally
in the audible spectrum.
And it's just a question of
having specific tools that
allow us to listen
in to those sounds,
and then amplify those sounds
so that we can then hear them.
[END PLAYBACK]
GEORGE: Well, that's
fascinating, fascinating.
GOLDMAN: It is
really interesting.
John came to a workshop of mine
over 20 years ago in England.
And he's just a
remarkable person.
And he's doing work such as--
he's really advanced work
based upon a lot of the work
that Hans Jenny, the Swiss
medical doctor, who basically
photographed the different
forms of how sound created form.
And this is--
George, I think if there's a
takeaway from this whole thing
it's first and foremost that
sound can create form, which is
in the beginning was the word.
Here's a manifestation
of sound, creating form.
Now, getting back for a
second to Peter Guy Manners,
the doctor I was
talking about, he
called his technology
cymatic therapy,
which is a little
bit different, where
he would be using
frequencies that he came up
with projecting it directly
into the body for healing.
It's now gotten a
different name where
it's called Simotherapy
to differentiate it.
GEORGE: Interesting.
GOLDMAN: But it
all works together.
GEORGE: Well, let's take
a little bit more look,
Jonathan, at the work you
did with John Stuart Reid.
It's fantastic.
[CHANTS]
It's amazing, Jonathan.
It sounds a little
like Gregorian chants.
GOLDMAN: That was my intoning
the divine name, which
is a sequence of
harmonically related vowel
sounds that what I would start
projecting the energy here,
go down to the base of my
spine, the root chakra,
and then going back
up in one single tone.
And the story of
how that manifested
is really, really interesting.
And to say that I
woke from a dream
where I was guided to do
that, and then later on shared
this with Gregg Braden, who had
written a book called "The God
Code" and he was talking
about Kabbalah, what is called
the Tetragammaton, the ancient
name of God that was revealed
to Moses, and I said, I
think I received this,
but I haven't shared
it with anybody
because I thought
it was too powerful.
But I give it to you, Greg.
So I made this recording.
He presented it
at his workshops,
and then somehow as all things
happened, George, it got out
into the internet
and I said, OK,
it's time for me to release
it and start teaching it.
So it's a very powerful
universal sound though.
It's not just related to the
Abrahamic traditions in terms
of this and that, but
anybody can intone the sound
and literally feel the
resonance, the energy going
from the top of the head
to the base of the spine
back up again,
which is profound.
GEORGE: The late
researcher, Dr. Emoto--
GOLDMAN: Yes.
GEORGE: --did some
incredible work
with frozen water crystals.
GOLDMAN: Yes.
GEORGE: He bombarded
them with sound,
what we would call
good music and what
we would call harsh music.
And under a microscope, with
the frozen water crystal,
the crystals that were
bombarded with what
we would say pleasant
music looked gorgeous
like natural cells, for example.
And the crystals
that were bombarded
with harsh music, loud music
were all discombobulated.
How do you explain that?
GOLDMAN: Well, George,
that falls very, very much
into the phenomena of frequency
plus intent equals healing,
that formula that
I came up with.
And Emoto, who I
had the pleasure
of having a luxury
with one day, blessed
be, he was able to really
project different, if you like,
intentionalities
and different music
with different intentionality
into the water.
And if you think about it,
how much of our self is water?
80% to 90%.
How much of the planet is water?
And my favorite of the
slides, as you mentioned,
polluted water, for
example, a water
that was projected with harsh
intentionality looks like mud.
And the water that basically
had positive thought
forms, positive music
looks like a snowflake.
GEORGE: Gorgeous.
GOLDMAN: And he took water
from the Fujiwara Dam, which
is a polluted dam in Japan,
and basically photographed it.
It looked like mud.
And then he had a
Buddhist priest,
a Buddhist monk priest chant
what is called the Heart Sútra
over this water, this same
water for about 20 minutes.
He photographed it and look
pristine like a snowflake.
And I thought, what an
extraordinary example about how
intentionalized sound can
literally shift and change
not only water but our entire--
how it can heal
ourselves and our planet.
GEORGE: It's dramatic.
What about prayer?
Where does that come in?
GOLDMAN: I almost don't
differentiate between prayer
and intentionalized sound.
And, in fact, if
you think about it,
most of the prayer on our
planet, it somehow vocalized.
It's whispered, chanted,
spoken, or sung.
And I believe that one of
the reasons this happens
is because it helps
focus our intention,
and it also helps amplify
our electromagnetic field.
As you know, there is this
phenomenon called heart brain
coherence that was basically
discovered by heart math
where when the
brain and the heart
are in a state of coherence,
which means entrainment, which
is a phenomenon of
physics, they're
locked in step together,
the electromagnetic field
is anywhere from 50 to
500 and even 5,000 times
greater than when
you couple that
with sound, whether it's a
chant, a prayer, a mantra,
a spoken word.
As long as the intention,
the energy is right,
the field becomes even greater.
So that's so important
for us to realize
that we can project healing
sounds even with speech.
GEORGE: Let's do some
sound techniques here
that you brought us.
Tell us what you
brought us here.
GOLDMAN: Well, this, for
example, is a Tibetan ball
that I put a little water on.
And just these are
ancient, ancient vehicles
and among other
things they create
very, very soothing effects.
This one, I'm just--
I put a little bit of
water in, so you can hear.
I like to call it
the dolphin bowl.
GEORGE: All right.
GOLDMAN: Because when
I listen to this,
I hear the Dolphins calling.
[GONGING]
GEORGE: Fascinating sound.
GOLDMAN: Very, very soothing.
Do this once more.
[GONGING]
GEORGE: And you don't
have to listen to it
too long for it to affect you.
GOLDMAN: And this is an
aspect of, if you like,
psychoacoustics where the
sound is going into our ear
and basically then
being transformed
from sound to basically,
ultimately electricity
and working in our brain and
affecting us and affecting
our heart rate and
respiration and brainwaves
among other things.
And what's so important
for people to understand
is that there's a phenomena
called entrainment, which
is when we listen to the
sounds, the vibrations,
the rhythms of the sound
will affect our brainwaves.
So slow sounds oftentimes
will slow down our brainwaves.
Fast sounds will speed it up.
And that's why if you're
going on a treadmill,
it's best to listen to the
Rolling Stones and not very,
very--
GEORGE: So you keep moving.
GOLDMAN: Yes, that's right.
GEORGE: You brought us
a couple of tuning fork.
GOLDMAN: Yes.
GEORGE: I want to--
[GONGING]
GOLDMAN: So those tuning forks--
GEORGE: Soothing also.
GOLDMAN: They're very soothing.
They actually were, if you
like, brought down to the planet
by my friend Dr.
John Boyer, who's
a wonderful, wonderful
teacher, writer, and healer.
And people focus very
much on frequency,
on the actual single
vibration of one object.
But really I think
one of the keys
is what is called an interval
of the relationship of two
vibrating objects together.
And this was known about,
again, by the ancients,
by Pythagoras who basically
got his information
from the ancient Greeks.
GEORGE: Who came up
with numerology as well.
GOLDMAN: Numerology.
And basically, he's the father
of basically geometry as well
mathematics.
And he understood that when you
have a single vibrating string,
it creates other vibrations
that occur simultaneously.
And these are called harmonics.
And these harmonics
basically, they
are geometric multiples
of the vibrating string
and they're
simultaneously occurring
so that when we hear a
single sound, whether it's
an instrument or a voice, we're
actually healing and hearing
multiple frequencies
that are simultaneously
occurring together.
Let me take it one step further.
And different instruments
and their voice
all project different,
if you like, aspects
of these harmonics that are
called formance-- not getting
too complicated-- and this
is why everyone's voice is
unique and different
because the harmonics,
the geometric multiples
that are happening
a little bit differently
for each person
will basically create this tone
or the timbre of the voice.
Harmonics, if you like,
are the color of sound.
GEORGE: I want to talk to
you about voice in a minute.
But let me bring in
Dr. Joe Dispenza--
GOLDMAN: Oh, yeah.
GEORGE: --on the Gaia
program "Rewired,"
who talked like you did about
the heart, brain coherence.
GOLDMAN: Yeah.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- And as you begin to suppress
this part of your brain,
the seat of your identity,
your personality,
and you slow your brain
waves down, as you do that
and you begin to tune into
energy, that unifying field,
its signature is oneness or
wholeness, or greater levels
of order, or connection.
And as you begin to
become aware of it
and put your attention
on it and as you
begin to sense the vastness
of that empty void,
as you begin to focus
on nothing but energy,
if you can begin to keep
your attention on it,
it will begin to create
more order or more coherence
in your brain.
So not only do you change your
brainwaves, but as you learn,
you create more order
and more coherence
because the brain's
attention is on something
that's highly orderly.
And we could say
that the moment you
take your attention
off your body,
you go from somebody
to a nobody.
The moment you take your
attention off your identity
that's connect to certain people
and certain things or times
and places, you
will become no one
in nothing, in
nowhere, and no time.
And that is the moment you
become pure consciousness,
and you disconnect from
everything known in your three
dimensional reality.
And we could say then if you're
no longer in the familiar past
or the predictable future, you
are falling into the eternal
now.
And according to the
quantum model of reality,
all possibilities exist
in the eternal now.
That means then in the now,
you're no longer in the known.
Now, you're in the unknown.
And that's where all
possibilities exist.
So to get beyond
yourself then means
you have to become
pure consciousness.
Now, I've been saying, if
where you place your attention
is where you place your
energy and you take
all of your attention
off everything material
and you began to become nobody,
no one, no thing, nowhere,
and no time and you
became pure consciousness,
what if then you allowed
yourself as an awareness
to stay in the unknown?
If you can linger without
a name, without a face,
without a gender, without your
pain, without your disease,
without all the
relationships you have,
without your past or
your predictable future,
it makes sense then
that the longer
you linger in the unknown
where all possibilities exist,
by very theory, the more you
would create new possibilities
in your life.
[END PLAYBACK]
GEORGE: Do you agree with that?
GOLDMAN: I love it.
And sound is one of the great
ways to get to that place.
Those tuning forks, for example,
which are harmonically related,
they really, once
you begin using it,
they will sort of begin--
GEORGE: Oh, they're amazing.
GOLDMAN: And it's
so interesting.
And Dr. Joe uses some of my
music in his guided meditations
at times.
So music can be such--
music and sound can be
such a great vehicle
to travel to that, if you like,
eternal now and that place
of quantum manifestation.
So, yes, that feels
very, very correct to me.
GEORGE: You brought us
another little thing
that the Tibetan
monks have used.
Tell us about this.
GOLDMAN: Well, and these
are called ting shovs.
And they are-- what I found
very, very interesting
is that there's a phenomena
called binaural beats.
I call it sonic entrainment.
But using slightly out-of-tune
sounds that would go in one ear
and slowly out of
tune in the other ear
so that the difference
between the two sounds
is basically the same frequency
bandwidth as the brain.
And so you can
basically induce--
the brain, obviously, moves
in different brainwaves things
from beta to alpha
to theta, et cetera--
and you can induce different
brainwave activity using sound.
Now, this seemed to
be a new discovery.
But on a level that
Tibetan monks have
been utilizing this
for years, these ting
shovs, if you hit
them together--
[GONGING]
GEORGE: What a great sound.
GOLDMAN: --and they create
a slightly out-of-tune
little vibrato or really type
of sound that basically you
can also use to just go into
a deep state of consciousness.
So it's a wondrous,
wondrous tool.
And I like to utilize these.
And they're also great
for giving people.
[GONGING]
Listen up now.
Pay attention.
GEORGE: Every class
should do that in school
before they start.
Class, glink.
GOLDMAN: I've given
them to teachers.
GEORGE: That's fantastic.
GOLDMAN: But that's
wonderful and--
GEORGE: How long do
you need to meditate
with that kind of sound in
order to start feeling better?
GOLDMAN: Oh, this
is so interesting
because I very
recently was given
a couple of tools of a
device that basically
is limited to three minutes.
And my one--
GEORGE: That's all?
GOLDMAN: I said,
hey, I want more.
I want more.
And, well, they found--
GEORGE: They are saying,
you don't need more, right.
GOLDMAN: On a level,
this is so true.
But, of course, I prefer more.
And more isn't better.
But by God, this was--
the three minutes is basically
for our modern day society
where people can't seem to
even stop, take a breath
for more than a minute or two.
So three minutes may
seem a lot of time.
I personally like to go for
5 or 10 minutes, minimally.
GEORGE: That's fantastic.
How does sound affect
us emotionally?
I mean, you hear a sound
on the radio as a song,
it gets to you.
And it's not just because
of past remembrances.
There's something to the
music that just does something
to you.
GOLDMAN: Well, this is--
GEORGE: It makes you happy.
It makes you sad and energized.
GOLDMAN: This is being studied
in a very, very deep level
by actually the NIH.
And all these other groups have
now this deep funding to really
understand how music works.
So the mechanisms, I mean, there
are lots of different theories.
But let's just
suggest, George, that I
think that every person
does have their own unique,
if you like, sonic RX.
That which works for
us, that might not
work for somebody else.
That's why he's saying to
me, hey, listen the song.
It doesn't sound great.
But for you, you listen to it
and it brings back memories.
It's encoded this and that.
So I think on a
level that there may
be an aspect of the time,
the place, the individual.
So there's a fellow who is a--
Dan Levitin is a
wonderful neurophysicist
who basically I was talking
with him and I said,
what is the best
music for people
that they can use
to feel better?
And he said, well, doctors
can prescribe things.
Therapists-- he says, but the
music that you like really
seems to work the best.
GEORGE: Period.
"Psychedelica" is another
Gaia television show.
You were part of it.
GOLDMAN: Mhm.
GEORGE: And you guys talked
about the shamanic use of sound
and how it can induce
altered states.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
SPEAKER 1: But how
can vocalizations
induce states of
consciousness that open us up
to the nature around
us as the shamans did?
Even beyond the words
that are being sung,
the intention behind them,
including how and when
they are used, seem to
make all the difference
in the shamanic traditions.
SPEAKER 2: So there's a way
to communicate through songs
not only among humans but
to everything that exists.
So that's why I say you
can sing to the sun.
You could sing to the Earth.
You could sing to peyote.
You could sing to ayahuasca.
So what you're doing is
you're singing gratitude.
You're singing love.
You're singing appreciation.
You're singing the
desire for information.
You're singing this
unifying-creating harmony
through music, through playing
songs, through singing songs.
This is a language.
Singing and songs, whether
they're with your voice
or whether they're
instruments, is a vibration
of spirit communication.
It's a whole different
sensory perception.
I mean, if you're in a
ceremony and you're just
sitting there
listening to songs,
once the songs come
from within you
and your voice is
activated, you're
like in another dimension.
It's a total new dimension.
Then your things-- it's like
it activates more information.
SPEAKER 1: Whether the sounds
are self produced or listened
to, ancient civilizations
have used sonic manipulation
to induce expanded
states of consciousness
since the beginning.
[END PLAYBACK]
GEORGE: That's
fantastic, Jonathan.
GOLDMAN: I love--
GEORGE: I'm beginning
to love this stuff.
GOLDMAN: Well, it's
so interesting.
That fellow was so
correct in terms
of the energy of appreciation
of kindness and gratitude
when we work with
that and even just--
George, lately the sound that
I've become most enamored with
is the simple hum,
believe it or not.
[HUMMING]
I've gone doing deep--
exactly.
I've worked with all sorts of
things from Tibetan deep voice
to harmonic chants to mantras to
all sorts of different things.
But I'm finding that for as
a, if you like, sonic tool
that everybody can use
it's just the idea--
my wife, Andy, and
I created something
called the conscious hum.
And this is simply taking
a nice deep breath,
and then humming on one
tone, a comfortable tone,
and you do this around
three different--
I'll give you an example.
[HUMMING]
And you do this around
three, four, five times.
GEORGE: And what
does it do to you?
GOLDMAN: Number one,
physiologically lowers
your heart rate, your
respiration, your brain waves.
It causes the
release of melatonin,
causes the release of oxytocin.
It causes, and this is
very big, the release
of nitric oxide, which is
great for your arteries.
And also, it is a
wonderful anti-viral agent.
So a lot of people--
GEORGE: Absolutely.
GOLDMAN: So you can
hum and basically
get all sorts of nasty
critters in your sinus cavity
to dissipate simply by
[HUMMING] so this is an aspect.
And it turns out that humming
is a very, very powerful
ancient, sacred yogic
technique that is technically
called Brahma Pranayama where
the practitioner will block
their ears and do a Mudra.
But basically,
it's just conscious
humming, humming on
one tone for a while,
and it's very, very powerful.
That's just one
aspect, let alone,
what is your
intentionality for it?
What are you doing?
You can project the hum to
different parts of your body
and create an internal
sonic massage that's great,
or you can project
it outward as you're
doing it to interface
with angels, spirits,
the trees, and whatnot.
So it's quite amazing.
The aspect of sound is
an all-encompassing,
multidimensional phenomena
that everybody can experience.
We can do it through listening
through different sounds.
We can do it through making
our own sounds and something as
simple, once again, as humming.
I love humming because
everybody can do it.
I have not met a person
who said, I'm a bad hummer.
GEORGE: That's right.
Remember the movie "Close
Encounters of the Third kind"?
GOLDMAN: Indeed, sir.
GEORGE: Yes, series of notes,
bom, bom, bom, bom, bom.
GOLDMAN: That's right.
GEORGE: What was that all about?
Communicating with sound.
GOLDMAN: Yes, well, that
is a great, if you like,
model for the fact that probably
rather than language, tonality.
It was a tonal language
that they used.
And actually, Peter Guy
Manners, the mentor of mine
who invented the
cinematic instrument,
suggested to me
that, that may have
been a tonality for the
molecular structure of water.
I don't know about
the truth of that.
But that's a great story.
But I love the idea.
And it's been suggested that
Steven Spielberg actually
was, if you like, encoded with
information of something that
happened on another, shall we
say, parallel dimension where
these beings landed
and communicated
with us through tonal
language, through sound.
GEORGE: He understood sound.
You put those notes in
there, and it was amazing.
GOLDMAN: And that was John
Williams too, who's brilliant.
GEORGE: I have seen
depictions of Egyptians
with horns, blowing horns
throughout the cities.
What was that all about?
GOLDMAN: You just really
reminded me of Joshua
and the walls of Jericho.
These would have
been, of course--
GEORGE: That was it.
That was it.
GOLDMAN: The idea that you--
look, you can use sound.
I like to say there
are two ways you
can use sound, constructively
or destructively.
Constructively is you're using
sound to basically encode
and enforce and
make more healthy
a part of the body that's
vibrating out of ease or out
of harmony.
And when it's vibrating
out of ease or harmony,
we say it's disease.
So if you can use
sound to basically put
that part of the body back
in, and that's constructive.
But destructive is such as John
Stuart Reid was talking about.
And Royal Rife did
stuff like that.
And there's another fellow,
Anthony Holland from Skidmore,
who's actually used
specific frequencies
to shatter cancer cells.
And this is what we
call the destructive.
And, of course, with
Joshua going around
the walls of Jericho and
the people were chanting
and they gave a great shout
and the walls came down.
So there, if they've
been able to figure out
the vibrational structure
of whatever mortar
or whatever that
made up with, they
could have literally
cause it to resonate--
GEORGE: It really happened.
GOLDMAN: It seems to have, yes.
GEORGE: On a Gaia show
called "Sounds of Creation"--
GOLDMAN: Yes.
GEORGE: --they talk
about the relationship
between sounds and megaliths.
I want your reaction
to this after that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
SPEAKER 1: How were these
giant stone structures created?
And by whom?
- People who was transforming to
higher states of consciousness.
And in these higher
states, they got
understanding what should be
done and how they can do it.
- Or it was using sound
technology to create
an anti-gravity field or some
kind of magnetic resonance.
There was a way that they
had an advanced technology
to build these temples
and these megaliths.
- It might have been sound
or frequency in combination
with technology that
at certain frequency
would produce
gravitational effects.
- There's no other real
truly scientific explanation
for how they accomplished
what they accomplished.
SPEAKER 2: The ultimate
answer has to involve sound.
They must have been able
somehow to put themselves
into some kind of sympathetic
resonance with these materials.
KIMBA AREM: Many
megalithic sites,
including pyramids, the stone
circles, and sacred sites
around the world,
are deliberately
located on Earth energy
lines or nodal points
of this global Earth
frequency grid.
- These are the points
on the Earth that
have a particular
power to them, that
vibrational quality.
And that vibrational quality
is actually the energy quality
of the original unified field,
the singularity state, the one
that everything came out of.
- They seem to be intended
for transmuting or channeling
the energy for healing
or ceremonial purposes.
- These sacred
power swaps on Earth
function similar to chakras
or acupuncture points
in the human body.
And they will have
the ability to help
to harmonize energetic
fields and consciousness
through the energy of that site.
[END PLAYBACK]
GEORGE: Jonathan,
it would seem to be
that sound may very well be one
of the most important aspects
of human existence.
GOLDMAN: So I've
been in this field
for about 40 years, George, and
I can only agree with you, sir,
because it is just--
it's extraordinary the more
I'm watching the observing
from all sorts of
different traditions,
whether it's the
scientific or the--
this is called a Cousteau
archaeology, sound and
archaeology-- and
we were talking
before about acoustic
levitation, which
has not gone away.
Back in the 1920s, there
was a fellow in Florida
who built a thing
called the Coral Castle.
GEORGE: Edward Leedskalnin.
GOLDMAN: And he had these
devices, supposedly.
No one ever saw them, but they
were somehow spiral devices
that he would hold in his hand
and that worked with some sort
of phenomena probably of a
electromagnetics or acoustics
that literally were able to--
he was able to move these
gigantic--
GEORGE: By himself.
GOLDMAN: --buildings and
all that stuff, yeah.
GEORGE: And he
once told people he
knew how the secret of
the pyramids were built.
GOLDMAN: Well, my
question to you--
I've thought about
that one for-- if you
knew the secret of how to
do that, would you share it?
Because there's such
responsibility in that,
that it's such a great
power that if you
could levitate and do this
and that, would you share it?
How much responsibility
do we have as humans
to basically consciously use
a technology that potentially
can shift and change molecular
structure and left hand
objects?
GEORGE: And who would
you share it with?
GOLDMAN: There you go.
GEORGE: That's the big
thing because there
are some that would probably
try to use this technology
for nefarious purposes.
They always do, Jonathan.
GOLDMAN: They always do, George.
They always do.
GEORGE: How do people
get a hold of you?
GOLDMAN: Best way is my
website healingsounds.com.
Healingsounds.com.
And it's got a
plethora of everything
from sonic tools to
information and free downloads
because my purpose is
to help initiate people
into understanding how sound can
be able to be used for healing
and transformation.
Everyone can use it.
And let's use it to heal
ourselves and heal our planet.
GEORGE: And it also heals us
mentally, too, doesn't it?
GOLDMAN: At least.
And you heal the body,
you heal the mind.
You heal the mind,
you heal the body.
And we heal the planet,
we heal ourselves.
We heal ourselves,
we heal the planet.
GEORGE: Jonathan, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
GOLDMAN: George, it's
been a real honor.
Thank you so much, sir.
GEORGE: Probably one of
the most important programs
we've done, how sound
can [GONGING] heal you.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[AUDIO LOGO]